cylc hub: document multi-user config post jupyter server v2 upgrade (#625)
cylc/cylc-doc: src/user-guide/sharing-access-to-workflows.rst

The Cylc UI Server can be configured to allow specified users to monitor and
optionally control workflows running under other user accounts.

This has many use cases including:

* Collaborative research setups where multiple users need to access the same
  workflow.
* Production systems where different levels of support may have different
  levels of access.
* Support where administrators may require access to users workflows.

A multi-user Cylc setup consists of three components:

1. `Jupyter Hub`_
2. `Jupyter Server`_
3. `Cylc UI Server`_

And may additionally include other Jupyter Server extensions such as
`Jupyter Lab`_ to provide a full interactive virtual workstation in the
browser.

In order to allow access to other users servers, to permit the monitoring and
optionally control of other users workflows, each of these three components
must be configured:

1. `Jupyter Hub`_ must be configured to allow connections to other users servers.
2. The `Jupyter Server`_ authorisation policy must be set.
3. Cylc must be configured with user permissions.

This configuration can all be performed in the same Jupyter / Cylc UI Server

> configuration file see :ref:`UI_Server_config` for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration file. See :ref:`UI_Server_config` for more details.
```

.. rubric:: Quick Example:

.. code-block:: python

   # /etc/cylc/uiserver/jupyter_config.py

   # 1. Jupyter Hub
   #    Allow all authenticated users to access, start and stop

>    #    eachothers servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #    each other's servers
```

:py:attr:`c.JupyterHub.load_roles <jupyterhub.app.JupyterHub.load_roles>`
configuration.
For more information see the
:ref:`JupyterHub scopes reference <jupyterhub-scopes>`.

Example:

.. code-block:: python

   # /etc/cylc/uiserver/jupyter_config.py

   c.JupyterHub.load_roles = [
       {
           # allow all authenticated users to access, start and stop
           # eachother's servers
           "name": "user",
           "scopes": ["self", "access:servers", "servers"],
       }
   ]

.. _jupyterserver.authorization:

Jupyter Server Authorisation
----------------------------

.. tip::

   You can skip this section if you are starting Jupyter Hub using ``cylc hub``
   command and have not overridden the
   :py:attr:`c.JupyterHub.spawner_class <jupyterhub.app.JupyterHub.spawner_class>`
   configuration (so are spawning the ``cylc hubapp`` command).

.. autoclass:: cylc.uiserver.authorise.CylcAuthorizer

.. _cylc.uiserver.user_authorization:

Cylc User Authorisation
-----------------------

Cylc Authorisation is configurable on a per-user and per-command basis but
not on a per-workflow basis.

By default users can only see and interact with their own workflows.

> Sites can restrict the permissions which users are allowed to delegate to each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sites can restrict the permissions that users are allowed to grant each
```

other and can configure default permissions (see :ref:`site_configuration`).

Authorization is configured by these two configurations:

* :py:attr:`c.CylcUIServer.user_authorization
  <cylc.uiserver.app.CylcUIServer.user_authorization>` (user configuration)
* :py:attr:`c.CylcUIServer.site_authorization
  <cylc.uiserver.app.CylcUIServer.site_authorization>` (site configuration)

.. rubric:: Example:

.. code-block:: python

   # ~/.cylc/uiserver/jupyter_config.py

   c.CylcUIServer.user_authorization = {
       # <user/group>: [<permission>, ...],

       # allow "user1" to monitor my workflows
       "user1": ["READ"],

       # allow "user2" to monitor and trigger tasks in my workflows
       "user2": ["READ", "Trigger"],
   }

Users
^^^^^

There are three methods of identifying a user to grant access to:

``<username>``
  Configures permissions for a singe user.
``group:<groupname>``
  Configures a user group. For more information, see :ref:`group_support`.
``*``
  Configures permissions for any authenticated user (see
  :ref:`Jupyter Hub authenticators reference <authenticators-reference>`
  for details).

.. note::

>    Using glob patterns (e.g. ``*``) to pattern match user and group names is
>    not currently supported.

Reviewer: Saying "e.g. `*`" sort of suggests that the last option above is not yet available
```suggestion
   Using glob patterns to match user and group names is
   not currently supported.
```

Permissions
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. TODO: autogenerate this permission list
   https://github.com/cylc/cylc-uiserver/issues/466

Permissions can be granted for each Cylc command individually. For convenience,
commands are arranged into groups to avoid having to list them individually:

``READ`` (i.e. read-only access)
  A user with read permissions may view workflows, monitor tasks states and
  open log files, but they cannot interact with the workflows.

  * ``Read``
``CONTROL`` (e.g. start & stop workflows)
  A user with control permissions may issue commands to interact with workflows
  and can start/stop workflows but cannot redefine the workflow configuration
  itself (without direct filesystem access).

>   * ``Ext-trigger``

Author: ```suggestion
  * ``Clean``
  * ``Ext-trigger``
```

``CONTROL`` (e.g. start & stop workflows)
  A user with control permissions may issue commands to interact with workflows
  and can start/stop workflows but cannot redefine the workflow configuration
  itself (without direct filesystem access).

  * ``Clean``
  * ``Ext-trigger``
  * ``Hold``
  * ``Kill``
  * ``Message``
  * ``Pause``
  * ``Play``
  * ``Poll``
  * ``Release``
  * ``ReleaseHoldPoint``
  * ``Reload``
  * ``Remove``
  * ``Resume``
  * ``SetGraphWindowExtent``
  * ``SetHoldPoint``
  * ``SetOutputs``
  * ``SetVerbosity``
  * ``Stop``
  * ``Trigger``
``ALL`` (i.e. full control)
  A user with all permissions may alter task configuration so may inject
  arbitrary code into the workflow.

  * ``Broadcast``

.. note::

   With the exception of ``Read`` all of the above permissions map onto the
   Cylc GraphQL mutations which themselves map onto the command line.

   E.G. the ``Play`` permission maps onto ``mutation play`` in the GraphQL
   schema and ``cylc play`` on the command line.

   To find out more about a command, see the GraphQL or CLI documentation.

By default, users have ``ALL`` permissions for their own workflows and no
permissions to other users workflows.

> Permissions are additive, so delegating both ``READ`` and ``CONTROL`` would
> provide all permission in both groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permissions are additive, so for example, delegating ``READ`` and ``CONTROL``
provides every one of the permissions from those two groups.
```

> Permissions are additive, so delegating both ``READ`` and ``CONTROL`` would
> provide all permission in both groups.

Author: ```suggestion
Permissions are additive, so for example, granting ``READ`` and ``CONTROL``
would provide all of the permissions from those two groups.
```

- ``"*"``  represents any authenticated user. They have permission to view all
  workflows, and view them on the GUI.
- ``"group:groupA"`` applies ``CONTROL`` permissions to any member of system
  ``groupA``.
  Note that, since permissions are additive, these users will gain ``READ`` access
  from the ``"*":["READ"]`` assignment.
- ``"user1"`` will have permission to view workflows, ``pause`` but not ``play``
  workflows, even if ``user1`` is a member of the system ``groupA``. This is due
  to negations taking precedence over additions.
- ``"user2"`` is not permitted to view workflows, or perform any operations.

.. _site_configuration:

Cylc Site Configuration
-----------------------

The :py:attr:`c.CylcUIServer.site authorization
<cylc.uiserver.app.CylcUIServer.site_authorization>` configuration allows sites
to configure sensible defaults and limits for the permissions users can

> delegate.

Reviewer: Think "grant" may be more widely understood than "delegate"
```suggestion
grant.
```

- ``"*"``  represents any authenticated user. They have permission to view all
  workflows, and view them on the GUI.
- ``"group:groupA"`` applies ``CONTROL`` permissions to any member of system
  ``groupA``.

>   Note that, since permissions are additive, these users will gain ``READ`` access

Reviewer: Perhaps this is a bit clearer?
```suggestion
  Note that, since permissions are inherited, these users will gain ``READ`` access
```

  from the ``"*":["READ"]`` assignment.
- ``"user1"`` will have permission to view workflows, ``pause`` but not ``play``
  workflows, even if ``user1`` is a member of the system ``groupA``. This is due
  to negations taking precedence over additions.
- ``"user2"`` is not permitted to view workflows, or perform any operations.

.. _site_configuration:

Cylc Site Configuration
-----------------------

> The :py:attr:`c.CylcUIServer.site authorization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :py:attr:`c.CylcUIServer.site_authorization
```
